It may differ based on the culture of your product or company,
but you should definitely lean towards creating
a slide deck when creating a product proposal,
to supplement your pitch with analysis,
visualizations, and summarize key points.
Generally, there should be three main sections in your deck.
The problems are, what is the issue?
The justification as in,
out of all issues, why should we work on this one?
Finally, the solutions are what are we going to do to solve this issue?
In each section, you should have the following key points in your slide.
Our problems and our pain points.
What are the existing users in our pain points?
Target users. Who are the users that you are targeting to service and build products for?
For the justification, in regards to user impact,
what is the potential impact of these proposed solutions to solve the user pain?
How does the proposed solutions fit in with the existing solutions in the market?
How do you expect the proposed solutions to
shift or alter existing solutions in the market?
What is the potential impact of
these proposed solutions to the bottom line of the business in terms of revenue,
user acquisition, and user attention?
The solution section will have your solutions,
which is what are some of the proposed solutions we're
building to alleviate or solve the pain points that we called out?
This includes a high-level list of the features that you'll be building.
Also, do be sure to call out what features
we will not be building as part of this iteration.
You should call out the known risks and assumptions we are taking with
a proposed solution and what we should do to mitigate the risks or test the assumptions.
So this key point may have limited information based on what stage of
product development you're in during your time of presentation.
What is the roll-out strategy in regards to launching the service or product?
Will we have an Alpha,
Beta, or an early access program?
In addition, what features are we planning to have in each one?
From my experience, the ordering of your content
matters depending on which parties you're presenting to.
Generally, for executives and leadership teams,
start out with the problem,
then proceed directly to the solution,
and finish off with the justification.
For all other teams and stakeholders,
again, start with the problem, but this time,
take a storytelling approach,
dive into the justification next,
and then lead into the solution.
Now, let's jump into an example of how use section will
look if you're a PM in our hypothetical, company, Xpiliary.
A company that makes customer service software for businesses large and small.